Feature/zigbee/krknwk 6682 add zigbee shell sample (#5651)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/zigbee/shell/README.rst

.. _zigbee_shell_sample:

Zigbee: Shell
#############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This :ref:`Zigbee <ug_zigbee>` shell sample demonstrates a Zigbee router (with the possibility of being a coordinator) that uses the :ref:<lib_zigbee_shell> library for interaction.

Reviewer: Link to `:ref:<lib_zigbee_shell>` is broken in documentation

Author: Fixed!

* Benchmarking - measuring time needed for a message to travel from one node to another.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf52833dk_nrf52833, nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

You can use two or more of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.

Additionally, you can use this sample with any other :ref:`Zigbee <ug_zigbee>` sample application for testing the communication or other sample-specific functionalities.

Overview
********

The Zigbee shell sample takes the Zigbee Router role and implements two clusters: Basic and Identify.
The Basic cluster provides attributes and commands for determining basic information about the node.
The Identify cluster allows to put the device into the identification mode, which provides a way to locate the device.
The device also includes all Zigbee shell commands, that allow for discovering, controlling and testing other Zigbee devices.

Available CLI interfaces
************************

> You can run the Zigbee shell commands after connecting and configuring any of the :ref:<lib_zigbee_shell> supported backends for testing.

Reviewer: The Zephyr Shell library provides which interfaces are available

Author: I do not understand. Could you elaborate, what is wrong in the current version?

Reviewer: Zigbee Shell doesn't restrict usage of any of the available Zephyr's Shell backends, we should mention Zephyr's Shell to check for available backends.

Author: This is not mentioned in Zigbee shell documentation..
Personally, I prefer to link to the library that is used directly, not something that it inherits from.

These interfaces are completely independent one from another and can be used simultaneously or exclusively.
For more information, see :ref:`gs_testing`.

The sample demonstrates the usage of commands from the :ref:`zigbee_cli_reference`.

> Zigbee CLI is integrated into the system shell that is accessible over the available interfaces.

Reviewer: `Zigbee CLI` or `Zigbee shell`? Think we need to decide if we should get rid of `Zigbee CLI`

.. _zigbee_shell_sample:

Zigbee: Shell
#############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This :ref:`Zigbee <ug_zigbee>` shell sample demonstrates a Zigbee router (with the possibility of being a coordinator) that uses the shell interface inside Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:shell_api` for interaction.

Reviewer 2: Can you also mention how this sample relates to the Zigbee shell library?

Additionally, I see this sample is based on the template one. Does it make sense to make this connection explicit in the doc?

Author: Yes. I think it is better to point to the Zigbee shell instead of the Zephyr shell in the intro.
I do not see a value in making a reference between the template and the shell sample: in theory any Zigbee sample is based on the template sample :slightly_smiling_face:

The sample can be used for several purposes, including:

> * Initial configuration of the network - forming a network as a coordinator, adding devices to the network with the install codes, setting the extended PAN ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Initial configuration of the network - forming a network as coordinator, adding devices to the network with the install codes, setting the extended PAN ID.
```

> * Benchmarking - measuring time needed for message to travel from one node to another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Benchmarking - measuring time needed for a message to travel from one node to another.
```

Available CLI interfaces
************************

The CLI can be accessed by using the following interfaces:

* UART
* RTT

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we link to this page here? https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_testing.html

This is what we have on the shell library page:
```
You can run the Zigbee shell commands after connecting and configuring the backend for testing.
For more information, see :ref:`gs_testing`.
```

Author: Added :slightly_smiling_face:

These interfaces are completely independent one from another and can be used simultaneously or exclusively.

> The sample demonstrates the usage of commands listed on :ref:`zigbee_cli_reference`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample demonstrates the usage of commands from the :ref:`zigbee_cli_reference`.
```

Zigbee CLI is integrated into the system shell that is accessible over the available interfaces.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf52833dk_nrf52833, nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

> You can use two or more of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.

Reviewer 2: It is unclear to me whether I need an additional DK to set up CLI device as coordinator, or I use the DK I'm going to program with the shell sample?
If I need an additional DK, we need to mention this additional requirement.

Author: Can we simplify the testing scenario and just advise a user to use CLI as the coordinator?
There is a separate page (I hope) describing how to replace a Nordic sample -based coordinator with a 3rd-party one.

Reviewer 2: You mean https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_zigbee_other_ecosystems.html ?

Author: Fixed!

> Additionally, you can use this sample with any other :ref:`Zigbee <ug_zigbee>` sample application for testing the communication or other sample-specific functionalities.

Reviewer 2: Let's move Requirements before the Available CLI interfaces, and Available CLI interfaces under Overview?

Author: I do not have a strong opinion on that. Moved.

Overview
********

> The Zigbee shell sample takes the Zigbee Router role and implements two clusters (Basic and Identify) that used to be required by the Zigbee Home Automation profile.

Reviewer 2: `used to be required`? Hm, do we need this info here if they are not required anymore?

Author: Copied from the template sample. You're right, there is no need to justify cluster selection in the Shell sample.

The Basic cluster provides attributes and commands for determining basic information about the node.
The Identify cluster allows to put the device into the identification mode, which provides a way to locate the device.
The device also includes all Zigbee shell commands, that allow for discovering, controlling and testing other Zigbee devices.

User interface
**************

LED 3:
    Turns on when the device joins the network.

LED 4:
    Blinks to indicate that the identification mode is on.

Button 4:
    Toggles the identification mode on the device.

All other interactions with the application can be handled using serial communication.

> See :ref:`zigbee_cli_reference` for the list of available serial commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See :ref:`zigbee_cli_reference` for available serial commands.
```
Link already includes "list".

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/zigbee/shell`

|enable_zigbee_before_testing|

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. _zigbee_shell_sample_testing:

Testing
=======

After building the sample and programming it to your development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

> #. Turn on the development kits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Turn on the development kits.
#. |connect_kit|
```
This will expand to:
`Connect the kit to the computer using a USB cable. The kit is assigned a COM port (Windows) or ttyACM device (Linux), which is visible in the Device Manager.`

> #. Set up the serial connection with the development kits that are programmed with the Zigbee CLI sample.
>    You can use one of the following CLI interfaces:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Set up the serial connection with the development kits that are programmed with the Zigbee CLI sample, using one of the following CLI interfaces:
```

   * UART - For more details, see :ref:`putty`.
   * RTT - For more details, see :ref:`testing_rtt`.

#. Depending on whether you have access to a standalone Zigbee Coordinator:

>    * If you have a standalone Zigbee Coordinator, make sure it is able to accept new nodes.

Reviewer 2: How do I make sure it is able to do this?

Author: By the 3rd-party coordinator -specific way (e.g. by checking a LED ring on the Alexa).

Author: Changed: now the testing section uses two shell boards.

   * If you do not have a standalone Zigbee Coordinator, use one of the following solutions:

>      - Use a Zigbee Coordinator from the :ref:`zigbee_network_coordinator_sample` sample and flash it on a third board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Use a Zigbee Coordinator from the :ref:`zigbee_network_coordinator_sample` sample and program it on a third board.
```
See my comment to requirements about this "third board".

>      - Set up one of the CLIs to act as Zigbee Coordinator (see `Setting up CLI device as Zigbee Coordinator`_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     * If you use several board programmed with the CLI sample, use one of the CLI nodes to act as Zigbee Coordinator (see `Setting up CLI device as Zigbee Coordinator`_).
```

> #. By default, the CLI sample implements the Zigbee Router functionality.
>    If you have a coordinator nearby that is using channel 16, run the following command on boards programmed with the CLI sample (excluding the coordinator board, if you use a CLI board as coordinator):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Given that by default the CLI sample implements the Zigbee Router functionality, if you have a coordinator nearby that is using channel 16, run the following command on boards programmed with the CLI sample (excluding the coordinator board, if you use a CLI board as coordinator):
```
We'll need to rework this CLI board as coordinator in the docs, as it's getting messy, but we do this later.

Author: If we restructure the testing scenario, this will be improved too.
